Anypoint Template: API Gateway External OAuth2 Provider with LDAP Validation

License Agreement

Note that using this template is subject to the conditions of this License Agreement. Please review the terms of the license before downloading and using this template. In short, you are allowed to use the template for free with API Gateway, CloudHub, or as a trial in Anypoint Studio.

Use Case
This new OAuth 2.0 Token Validation Policy allows you to use HTTPS communication and to configure a single OAuth provider for multiple APIs.

Considerations
It is assumed that you are familiar with the policy documentation.

LDAP configuration

LDAP Configuration is similar to the one described for LDAP security provider policy. You need to know:

LDAP URL
LDAP user DN
LDAP password
LDAP search base
LDAP search filter

Run it!
Simple steps to get API Gateway External OAuth2 Provider running.

Running on premise

In this section we detail the way you should run your Anypoint Template on your computer.

Where to Download Mule Studio and API Gateway

First thing to know if you are a newcomer to API Gateway is where to get the tools.

You can download Mule Studio from this Location
You can download API Gateway from this Location
Importing an Anypoint Template into Studio

Mule Studio offers several ways to import a project into the workspace, for instance:

Anypoint Studio generated Deployable Archive (.zip)
Anypoint Studio Project from External Location
Maven-based Mule Project from pom.xml
API Gateway Configuration XML from External Location
You can find a detailed description on how to do so in this Documentation Page.

Running on Studio

Once you have imported your Anypoint Template into Anypoint Studio you need to follow these steps to run it:

Locate the properties file mule.dev.properties, in src/main/resources
Complete all the properties required as per the examples in the section Properties to be configured
Once that is done, right-click your Anypoint Template project folder
Hover you mouse over "Run as"

Click on "Mule Application"
Note: It is assumed that the runtime defined on your project is API Gateway 2.0.0 or greater.

Running on API Gateway stand alone

Complete all properties in one of the property files, for example in mule.prod.properties and run your app with the corresponding environment variables to use it (additional details can be found here). To follow the example, this will be mule.env=prod.

Running on CloudHub

While creating your application on CloudHub (Or you can do it later as a next step), you need to go to Deployment > Advanced to set all environment variables detailed in Properties to be configured as well as the mule.env.

Deploying your Anypoint Template on CloudHub

Mule Studio provides you with really easy way to deploy your Template directly to CloudHub, for the specific steps to do so please check this link

Properties to be configured (With examples)

In order to use this Mule Anypoint Template you need to configure properties (Credentials, configurations, etc.) either in properties file or in CloudHub as Environment Variables. Detailed list with examples:

Application Configuration

https.port 8082
Environment related properties

Follow the instructions that can be found here

Keystore

key.store.password <password>
key.store.key.password <password>
key.store.path keystore.jks
LDAP Validation

ldap.userDn <cn=Manager,dc=yourcompany,dc=com>
ldap.password <pass>
ldap.url <ldaps://ldap.cloudhub.io:3636>
ldap.user.search.filter.1 <ou=people,dc=forum,dc=com>
ldap.user.search.filter.2 <(uid={0})>
Endpoints

validate.endpoint.path aes/external/validate
authorization.endpoint.path aes/external/authorize
access.token.endpoint.path aes/external/access-token

Scopes

scopes READ WRITE

Supported Grant Types

supported.grant.types AUTHORIZATION_CODE RESOURCE_OWNER_PASSWORD_CREDENTIALS CLIENT_CREDENTIALS IMPLICIT (all supported types separated by spaces)